sd-jwt vc profile for oid4vc (#56)
vcstuff/oid4vc-haip-sd-jwt-vc: draft-oid4vc-haip-sd-jwt-vc.md

Implementations of this profile:

> * MUST support both pre-auth code flow and authorization code flow.

Reviewer: I'd suggest SHOULD support pre-auth code flow and MUST auth code flow because there may be implementers that still have security concerns or implementation constraints about the pre-auth code flow

For the flow that requires a credential offer it would the best solution allowing also a pre auth code flow and not just a pre-authz code flow. This would be an issue for OpenID4VCI, so let's keep for discussion without blocking this PR if possibile

Reviewer 2: there is already issue #60 on this topic

> * MUST support SD-JWT VC profile as defined in this specification (#sd-jwt-vc). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* MUST support SD-JWT VC profile as defined in this specification (##vc_sd_jwt_profile). 
```

# OpenID for Verifiable Presentations

>    * MUST support the SD-JWT VC profile as defined in this specification (#sd-jwt-vc). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * MUST support the SD-JWT VC profile as defined in this specification (#vc_sd_jwt_profile). 
```

Note: The issuer MAY decide to support both options. In which case, it is at the discretion of the Wallet and the Verifier which key to use for the issuer signature validation.

### Cryptographic Holder Binding between VC and VP

* For Cryptographic Holder Binding, a KB-JWT as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] MUST always be present when presenting an SD-JWT VC.

## SD-JWT VC Credential Format Profile {#vc_sd_jwt_profile}

This section specifies how SD-JWT VCs as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] are used in conjunction with OpenID4VC specifications.

### Format Identifier

The Credential format identifier is `vc+sd-jwt`. This format identifier is used in issuance and presentation requests.

### Credential Issuer Metadata {#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt}

The following additional Credential Issuer metadata are defined for this Credential format to be used in addition to those defined in Section 10.2 of [@!OIDF.OID4VCI].

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It consists at least of the following two sub claims:

Reviewer 3: sub claims -> members
(The current wording may confuse people into thinking we're talking about the `sub` claim.)

Author: changed claims to elements

    * `mandatory`: OPTIONAL. Boolean which when set to `true` indicates the claim MUST be present in the issued Credential. If the `mandatory` property is omitted its default should be assumed to be `false`.
    * `value_type`: OPTIONAL. String value determining type of value of the claim. A non-exhaustive list of valid values defined by this specification are `string`, `number`, and image media types such as `image/jpeg` as defined in IANA media type registry for images (https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml#image).
    * `display`: OPTIONAL. An array of objects, where each object contains display properties of a certain claim in the Credential for a certain language. Below is a non-exhaustive list of valid parameters that MAY be included:
        * `name`: OPTIONAL. String value of a display name for the claim.

>         * `locale`: OPTIONAL. String value that identifies language of this object represented as language tag values defined in BCP47 [@!RFC5646]. There MUST be only one object with the same language identifier.

Reviewer 3: with the same language identifier -> for each language identifier

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * `locale`: OPTIONAL. String value that identifies language of this object represented as language tag values defined in BCP47 [@!RFC5646]. There MUST be only one object for each language identifier.
```

The following is a non-normative example of a Credential Request with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_request_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Response {#credential_response_jwt_vc_json}

The value of the `credential` claim in the Credential Response MUST be a JSON string that is an SD-JWT VC. Credentials of this format are already suitable for transfer and, therefore, they need not and MUST NOT be re-encoded.

The following is a non-normative example of a Credential Response with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_response_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

### Verifier Metadata

The Verifier SHOULD add a `vp_formats_supported` element to its metadata (e.g. in the `client_metadata` authorization request parameter) to let the wallet know what protection algorithms it supports in conjunction with SD-JWT VCs. The format element MUST have the key `vc+sd-jwt`, the value is an object consisting of the following elements:

> * `sd-jwt-alg`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer 3: sd-jwt-alg -> sd-jwt_signing_alg_values_supported
This uses the metadata naming conventions in https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html and related OAuth specs.

Reviewer 2: verifier is client to it is not discovery spec, but client registration spec that is relevant, so `sd-jwt-alg` is correct.

Reviewer 3: If you want examples from the client registration spec, the names are the likes of `id_token_signed_response_alg`, `userinfo_signed_response_alg`, `request_object_signing_alg`, `token_endpoint_auth_signing_alg`, etc.

The point of the requested changes is to have HAIP be clearly aligned with other related specs and the conventions used in them - and not appear to be something that was done in isolation, ignoring the way closely related specifications work.  Alignment will be good for everyone and for the acceptance of HAIP.

As a detailed point, whenever an element is a list of items, we use a plural name.  And when the list is of things supported, we use "supported" in the name.

Hence, I stand by my request to use names that will be unsurprising to people already familiar with OAuth and OpenID naming conventions:
`sd-jwt-alg` -> `sd-jwt_signing_alg_values_supported`
`kb-jwt-alg` -> `kb-jwt_signing_alg_values_supported`

Reviewer 2: sure, sd_jwt_signing_alg might be more aligned - please open an issue or a PR to track this.

but no need for `_values_supported` because this is Client metadata and not AS metadata.

Reviewer 3: The description of the field includes
> A JSON array containing identifier**s** of cryptographic algorithms the verifier **supports**

It's a list of supported values, so "supported" is called for.  And because it's a list, the name needs to be plural, not singular.

I'm ready to approve this PR after the changes are applied.  Given I was suggesting naming alignment, I didn't expect my review comments to be at all controversial.

Reviewer 2: @selfissued these are the specs we are aligning to because verifier is the client,
https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-registration-1_0.html
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7591
and the convention here is not to use `_supported` - please check.

I made changes to `*_signng_alg` - please re-review

> * `kb-jwt-alg`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer 3: kb-jwt-alg -> kb-jwt_signing_alg_values_supported

Reviewer 2: same as above

Note: Re-using the same Credential across Verifiers, or re-using the same JWK value across multiple Credentials gives colluding Verifiers a mechanism to correlate the User. There are currently two known ways to address this with SD-JWT VCs. First is to issue multiple instances of the same credentials with different JWK values, so that if each instance of the credential is used at only one Verifier, it can be reused multiple times. Another is to use each credential only once (ephemeral credentials). It is RECOMMENDED to adopt one of these mechanisms.

Note: If there is a requirement to communicate information about the verification status and identity assurance data of the claims about the subject, the syntax defined by [@!OIDF.ekyc-ida] SHOULD be used. It is up to each jurisdiction and ecosystem, whether to require it to the implementers of this profile.

> Note: If there is a requirement to provide the Subject’s identifier assigned and maintained by the Issuer, `sub` claim MAY be used. There is no requirement for a binding to exist between `sub` and `cnf` claims. See section X in [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] for implementation considerations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: If there is a requirement to provide the Subject’s identifier assigned and maintained by the Issuer, `sub` claim MAY be used. There is no requirement for a binding to exist between `sub` and `cnf` claims. See [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] for implementation considerations.
```

    * `display`: OPTIONAL. An array of objects, where each object contains display properties of a certain claim in the Credential for a certain language. Below is a non-exhaustive list of valid parameters that MAY be included:
        * `name`: OPTIONAL. String value of a display name for the claim.
        * `locale`: OPTIONAL. String value that identifies language of this object represented as language tag values defined in BCP47 [@!RFC5646]. There MUST be only one object with the same language identifier.
* `order`: OPTIONAL. An array of claims.display.name values that lists them in the order they should be displayed by the Wallet.

The following is a non-normative example of an object comprising `credentials_supported` parameter of Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_metadata_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Offer

The following additional claims are defined for this Credential format.

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It consists at least of the following sub claims:
>   * `type`: REQUIRED. JSON string as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt). This claim contains the type value the Wallet shall request in the subsequent Credential Request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It MUST contain at least `type` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt).
```

The following is a non-normative example of an object comprising `credentials_supported` parameter of Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_offer_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Authorization Details {#authorization_vc_sd-jwt}

The following additional claims are defined for authorization details of type `openid_credential` and this Credential format.

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It consists at least of the following sub claims:
>   * `type`: REQUIRED. JSON string as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt). This claim contains the type value the Wallet requests authorization for at the issuer.
>   * `claims`: OPTIONAL. A JSON object containing a list of key value pairs, where the key identifies the claim offered in the Credential. The value MAY be a dictionary, which allows to represent the full (potentially deeply nested) structure of the verifiable credential to be issued. This object indicates the claims the Wallet would like to turn up in the credential to be issued.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `credential_definition`: REQUIRED.  JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It MUST contain at least `type` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt). It MAY contain `claims` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt).
```

The following is a non-normative example of an authorization details object with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/authorization_details_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Request

The following additional parameters are defined for Credential Requests and this Credential format.

> * `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It consists at least of the following sub claims:
>   * `type`: REQUIRED. JSON string as defined in (#authorization_vc_sd-jwt). The credential issued by the issuer MUST be of the type defined in this claim.
>   * `claims`: OPTIONAL. A JSON object as defined in (#authorization_vc_sd-jwt). This object determines the subset of authorized claims to be added to the credential to be issued.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `credential_definition`: REQUIRED. JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It MUST contain at least `type` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt). It MAY contain `claims` property as defined in (#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt).
```

The following is a non-normative example of a Credential Request with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_request_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Response {#credential_response_jwt_vc_json}

> The value of the `credential` claim in the Credential Response MUST be an SD-JWT VC. Credentials of this format are already suitable for transfer and, therefore, they need not and MUST NOT be re-encoded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The value of the `credential` claim in the Credential Response MUST be a JSON string that is an SD-JWT VC. Credentials of this format are already suitable for transfer and, therefore, they need not and MUST NOT be re-encoded.
```

`about reusing existing browser API for wallet selection` is not clear enough

The following is a non-normative example of a Credential Response with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_response_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

### Verifier Metadata

> The Verifier SHOULD add a `vp_formats_supported` element to its metadata (e.g. in the `client_metadata` authorization request parameter) to let the wallet know what protection algorithms it supports in conjunction with SD-JWT VCs. The format element MUST have the key ``vc+sd-jwt`, the value is an objec consisting of the following elements:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Verifier SHOULD add a `vp_formats_supported` element to its metadata (e.g. in the `client_metadata` authorization request parameter) to let the wallet know what protection algorithms it supports in conjunction with SD-JWT VCs. The format element MUST have the key `vc+sd-jwt`, the value is an object consisting of the following elements:
```

* `sd-jwt-alg`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.
* `kb-jwt-alg`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

The following is a non-normative example of `client_metadata` request parameter value in a request to present a SD-JWT VC.

<{{examples/client_metadata_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Presentation Definition

> The presentation of a SD-JWT VC is requested by adding an object named `vc+sd-jwt` to the `format` object of an `input_descriptor`. The object is empty.

Reviewer 4: Is there any integration (or plants to) with the DIF Claim format Registry? 

The Presentation Exchange specification links to this spec for a list of claim formats and their structure to use them within the formats property. 

https://identity.foundation/claim-format-registry/

Reviewer 2: yes, it would be ideal if we can align with the PR spec.

Author: filed issue https://github.com/vcstuff/oid4vc-haip-sd-jwt-vc/issues/63

The following is a non-normative example of a Credential Request with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_request_sd_jwt_vc.json}}

### Credential Response {#credential_response_jwt_vc_json}

The value of the `credential` claim in the Credential Response MUST be a JSON string that is an SD-JWT VC. Credentials of this format are already suitable for transfer and, therefore, they need not and MUST NOT be re-encoded.

The following is a non-normative example of a Credential Response with Credential format `vc+sd-jwt`.

<{{examples/credential_response_sd_jwt_vc.txt}}

### Verifier Metadata

The Verifier SHOULD add a `vp_formats_supported` element to its metadata (e.g. in the `client_metadata` authorization request parameter) to let the wallet know what protection algorithms it supports in conjunction with SD-JWT VCs. The format element MUST have the key `vc+sd-jwt`, the value is an object consisting of the following elements:

> * `sd_jwt_alg`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `sd_jwt_signing_alg`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.
```

> * `kb_jwt_alg`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `kb_jwt_signing_alg`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.
```

> * `kb-jwt-alg`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `kb_jwt_alg`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms the verifier supports for protection of a KB-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.
```

## Issuer identification and key resolution to validate an issued Credential {#issuer-key-resolution}

> This profile supports two ways to represent and resolves the key required to validate the issuer signature of an SD-JWT VC, web PKI-based key resolution and x.509 certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This profile supports two ways to represent and resolve the key required to validate the issuer signature of an SD-JWT VC, the web PKI-based key resolution and the x.509 certificates.
```

> * Web-based key resolution: The key used to validate the Issuer’s signature on the SD-JWT VC MUST be obtained from the SD-JWT VC issuer's metadata as defined in Section 5 of [@!I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc]. The JOSE header `kid` MUST be used to identify the respective key.

Reviewer: unfortunately I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc doesn't support OIDC Federation, that's a webpki with trust chains and a solid alternative to X.509

Author: nothing in the sd-jwt vc draft precludes use of OIDC Federation, in the same way as it does not preclude x.509
HAIP mandates jwt issuer and x.509, adding another (mandatory to implement) option seems a complexity driver, but let's talk. Please open an issue about it as this PR is about a different topic.

Reviewer: Done here https://github.com/vcstuff/oid4vc-haip-sd-jwt-vc/issues/59

Author: thanks

### Cryptographic Holder Binding between VC and VP

* For Cryptographic Holder Binding, an HB-JWT as defined in [@!I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc] MUST always be present when presenting an SD-JWT VC.

## OpenID4VC SD-JWT VC Credential Format Profile {#vc_sd_jwt_profile}

This section specifies how SD-JWT VCs are used in conjunction with OpenID 4 VCs.
### Format Identifier

The Credential format identifier is `vc+sd-jwt`.

### Credential Issuer Metadata {#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt}

The following additional Credential Issuer metadata are defined for this Credential format.

> * `type`: REQUIRED. JSON string designating the type a certain credential type supports as defined in [@!I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc], Section 4.2.2.1.

Reviewer 2: not sure what `type of a certain credential type` is supposed to mean...

```suggestion
* `type`: REQUIRED. JSON string designating the type of a credential as defined in [@!I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc], Section 4.2.2.1.
```

### Cryptographic Holder Binding between VC and VP

> * For Cryptographic Holder Binding, an HB-JWT as defined in [@!I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc] MUST always be present when presenting an SD-JWT VC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For Cryptographic Holder Binding, a KB-JWT as defined in [@!I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc] MUST always be present when presenting an SD-JWT VC.
```

> * For Cryptographic Holder Binding, an HB-JWT as defined in [@!I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc] MUST always be present when presenting an SD-JWT VC.

Reviewer 3: Now I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc

Author: adapted

## OpenID4VC SD-JWT VC Credential Format Profile {#vc_sd_jwt_profile}

> This section specifies how SD-JWT VCs as defined in [@!I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc] are used in conjunction with OpenID4VCs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section specifies how SD-JWT VCs as defined in [@!I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc] are used in conjunction with OpenID4VC specifications.
```

### Format Identifier

The Credential format identifier is `vc+sd-jwt`.

### Credential Issuer Metadata {#server_metadata_vc_sd-jwt}

> The following additional Credential Issuer metadata are defined for this Credential format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following additional Credential Issuer metadata are defined for this Credential format to be used in addition to those defined in Section 10.2 of [@!OpenID4VCI].
```

From my experience it hasn't been clear that these are used in addition to..

> 

Reviewer 2: 'Credential_definition' is missing..?

Author: yes, added it.

* `type`: REQUIRED. JSON string designating the type of a credential as defined in [@!I-D.terbu-sd-jwt-vc], Section 4.2.2.1.

> * `claims`: OPTIONAL. A JSON object containing a list of key value pairs, where the key identifies the claim offered in the Credential. The value MAY be a dictionary, which allows to represent the full (potentially deeply nested) structure of the verifiable credential to be issued. The value is a JSON object detailing the specifics about the support for the claim with a following non-exhaustive list of parameters that MAY be included:

Reviewer 2: Should probably be name-value pair (?) per recent PR by MikeJ

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `claims`: OPTIONAL. A JSON object containing a list of name/value pairs, where each name identifies a claim offered in the Credential. The value can be another such object (nested data structures), or an array of such objects. To express the specifics about the claim, the most deeply nested value MAY be a JSON object that includes a following non-exhaustive list of parameters defined by this specification:
```
need to align with https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/69/files
